---
layout: post
author: Gene
title: Open call for crypto builders
excerpt: Are you a developer working with smart contracts and cryptocurrencies, or aspiring to become one? Do you also have an interest in low-cost, sustainable, nature and community-oriented life? Then we are interested in having you join us for Mars College.
---


Are you a developer working with smart contracts and cryptocurrencies, or aspiring to become one? Do you also have an interest in low-cost, sustainable, nature and community-oriented life? Then we are interested in having you join us for Mars College. Please read on...

## What is Mars College?

Mars College is a residential community in the Sonoran Desert of Southern California, dedicated to helping people learn how to adopt a low-cost, sustainable, self-reliant lifestyle, in a natural setting alongside a community of like-minded people. We are equal parts incubator, educational program, and intentional community, with a diverse mix of interests spanning from yoga to vanlife to AI.

Since Jan 2020, we've organized two quarters, during which a cohort of 30-50 people came together to build a temporary off-grid village in a remote desert location we call Mars. Instead of charging people money, we expect everyone to help build and sustain our community, as well as contribute to our collective interests and intellectual pursuits. To learn more about what we do, see the "live", "work", and "study" pages, or see our photo gallery.

We are currently preparing an open call for the 2022 program, which will occur in the first quarter of 2022, with a warm-up period in November and December. In addition to Mars College, we are in the early stages of establishing a rural wireless internet service provider in our local area, rehabilitating a decrepit but glorious old bank in a nearby town we intend to convert into a makerspace, and setting up an RV/van dealership. Although our scope is large, we are still very small, and will need people to help us make these programs to succeed.


## Why smart contracts and cryptocurrencies?

Decentralization is a core principle of our project. Rather than forming a hierarchy or monolithic enterprise, we want to develop a blueprint for how individuals and small communities can replicate and innovate on our model. We are fascinated by cryptocurrencies, tokens, and decentralized governance protocols, and have a long-term ambition to embrace these technologies and form a constellation of autonomous communities that are economically and culturally linked.


## Is this a job? What will I get out of it?

In short, no. We do not yet have a specific crypto project we are building, and don't have work to give you. For now, we just want to begin learning how to program smart contracts, issue tokens, experiment with governance tools, and begin building from the bottom up tools which may help us tokenize aspects of our project.

We have no prior experience, and you would play a leading role in helping this initiative get off the ground, which could certainly lead to a longer-term commitment if the stars align.

In return, we offer a place in our community, a social infrastructure to apply your skills to, 


