---
layout: post
author: Chatsubo Z
title: Mars 2022 Schedule
description: A rough timeline of Mars College in 2022
image: https://mars.college/images/gallery/thumb/VID_20210314_235300_163.mp4
share_type: summary_large_image
---
# MArs College 2022 schedule
## November 1 - December 25 | Planning  
Plan our build, organize and purchase material. Imagine things to learn, online classes  to take, projects to do during Mars '22.

## December 26 - Jan 2 | Move to Mars
Ready or Not here we come!  
* establish a base camp 
* move our trailers & everything else
* New Years Party on Mars !

## Jan 3 - 8 | Build Week 1
** Pallet Racks !!!**
One week to get our main building erected with floors and walls, stairs and guard rails. Everything screwed in, tied down and ready for the next phase.

## Jan 10 - 15
**Infrastructure week**
* Wifi Everywhere
* Showers, kitchens, sinks, some sort of laundry
* Gray water feeding into plants
* Output station for trash and recycling
* Woodshop tools, and hardware
* Screens, projectors, TV's 
* soft loungy spaces
* hard work tables
* solar panels, extension cords, power strips

## Jan 17 - 22
** Welcome Week **
With our physical layer taken care of this week we shift focus into the ethereal. We share meals, tell stories, imagine future's, plan projects, recruit collaborators, watch movies and generally put it all out there. Like an extended brainstorming session this is the time to throw it all out there and see what sticks. Most of the Mars College schedule is flexible, but this week is important for people to be present and engaged.

## Jan 24 - Feb 18
** First Semester **

## Feb 19 - 21
** Mid Term Update & Spring Break **

## Feb 22 - March 17
** Second Semester **

## March 18 - 23 
** Final Showcase **

## March 24 - 27
** Electric Unicycle Rally

## March 28 - 31
** End of Mars College
Disengage, Break-down, organize and store
  
  
# Events of Interest
## April 21 - 24
** [Neotropolis Cyber Punk Festival](https://www.neotropolis.com/about)
  
** [Burningman](https://burningman.org/)
